[DOCS] Detection engine wildcard exceptions (#2212)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/detections-ui-exceptions.asciidoc

When you add an exception, you can also close all alerts that meet the
exception's criteria.

[IMPORTANT]
==============
* To ensure an exception is successfully applied, make sure that the fields you've defined for the exception query are correctly and consistently mapped in their respective indices. Refer to {ecs-ref}[ECS] to learn more about supported mappings.

> * Be careful when adding exceptions to event correlation rules. Exceptions are evaluated against every event in the sequence, and when the exception matches _all_ event(s) in the sequence, alerts _are not_ generated. If the exception only matches _some_ of the events in the sequence, alerts _are_ generated. 

Reviewer: Do you maybe want to link to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/rules-ui-create.html#create-eql-rule on "event correlation rules"? I had to review that page for this to make sense to me 🤷

Author: ```suggestion
* Be careful when adding exceptions to <<create-eql-rule,event correlation>> rules. Exceptions are evaluated against every event in the sequence, and when the exception matches _all_ event(s) in the sequence, alerts _are not_ generated. If the exception only matches _some_ of the events in the sequence, alerts _are_ generated. 
```

exception (*Manage* -> *Rules* -> *_<Rule name>_*).
.. Scroll down below the rule details and select the *Exceptions* tab.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/exception-histogram.png[Detail of Exceptions tab, 75%]
.. Click *Add new exception* -> *Add rule exception*.

* To add an exception from the Alerts table:
.. Go to *Alerts*.
.. Scroll down to the Alerts table, go to the alert you want to create an exception for, click the *More Actions* menu (*...*), then select *Add rule exception*.

The *Add Rule Exception* flyout opens (the example below was opened from the Alerts table):
--
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/add-exception-ui.png[]
. Use the following settings to add conditions that define when the exception prevents alerts. In the example above, the exception prevents the rule from generating alerts when the
`svchost.exe` process runs on agent hostname `siem-kibana`.

  .. *Field*: Select a field to identify the event being filtered.

  .. *Operator*: Select an operator to define the condition:
    * `is` | `is not` — Must be an exact match of the defined value.
    * `is one of` | `is not one of` — Matches any of the defined values.

>     * `exists` | `does not exist` — The defined field exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `exists` | `does not exist` — The field exists.
```

>     * `is in list` | `is not in list` — Matches values in a value list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `is in list` | `is not in list` — Matches values in a list.
```

Author: I think this needs to remain "value list" to be consistent with other usage in the topic and also in the UI (the button on the Rules page is "Import value lists".)

+
[NOTE]
=======

> *  When using a list, all conditions in an exception must use the `is in list` or `is not in list` operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Exceptions defined by a list must use `is in list` or `is not in list`.
```

Author: I like the brevity but I think this loses a bit of meaning, specifically about conditions. A user may not realize that creating one condition using `is/is not in list` prevents them from creating a different kind of condition within the same exception. Maybe:
```suggestion
*  An exception defined by a list must use `is in list` or `is not in list` in all conditions.
```

Reviewer 2: @joepeeples do you think "value list" should be used here as well?

Author: @nastasha-solomon It wouldn't hurt; added to my suggestion above

* Wildcards are not supported in value lists.
=======

>     * `matches` | `does not match` — Allows you to use wildcards in *Value*, such as `C:\path\*\app.exe`. Available wildcards are `?` (match one character) and `*` (match zero or more characters). The selected *Field* data type must be a {ref}/keyword.html#keyword-field-type[keyword], {ref}/text.html#text-field-type[text], or {ref}/keyword.html#wildcard-field-type[wildcard].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `matches` | `does not match` — Allows you to use wildcards in *Value*, such as `C:\path\*\app.exe`. Available wildcards are `?` (match one character) and `*` (match zero or more characters). The selected *Field* data type must be {ref}/keyword.html#keyword-field-type[keyword], {ref}/text.html#text-field-type[text], or {ref}/keyword.html#wildcard-field-type[wildcard].
```

To export or delete an exception list, select the required action button on the appropriate list. Note that:

* Exception lists are exported to `.ndjson` files.
* Exception lists are also exported as part of any exported detection rules configured with exceptions. Refer to <<import-export-rules-ui>>.

> * If a list is linked to any rules, you'll get a warning appear asking you to confirm the deletion. If no rules are linked to a list, it is deleted without confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If a list is linked to any rules, you'll get a warning asking you to confirm its deletion. If no rules are linked to a list, you can delete it without confirming.
```

Reviewer 2: This might be overkill, but would it make sense here to add "exception" before "lists" to describe the list type? Also, I kind of prefer the original, though I'd make a couple minor tweaks:

```suggestion
* If a list is linked to any rules, you'll get a warning appear asking you to confirm the deletion. If no rules are linked, the list is automatically deleted without confirmation.
```

Author: @nastasha-solomon +1 on adding "exception" for clarity and consistency. For the second part, it feels a little redundant to me: I don't think we need both "automatically" and "without confirmation." Let's go with the latter, since you and @benironside are both leaning that way.
```suggestion
* If an exception list is linked to any rules, you'll get a warning appear asking you to confirm the deletion. If no rules are linked, the list is deleted without confirmation.
```
